---
layout: post
title:  ZIP 250 Disks
category: jekyll 
description: Instructions for imaging ZIP 250 disks.
---

# ZIP 250 Disks

## Equipment Needed
### Hardware
 - Tableau TD3
 - Tableau TDPX5
 - Tableau TC2-8-R2
 - Tableau TC6-8
 - Tableau TP5 Power Supply
 - Tableau TCA-MF-BNDL-3PC, smallest size
 - ZIP 250 drive
 - USB drive
 
 ## Instructions
 ### Set-Up
 1. Connect the TDPX5 to the TD3, using the connector on the left side of the TD3
 2. Plug in the TD3 using the TP5 power supply and correct size TCA piece. THe light on the power brick 
 should turn green once connected properly
 3. Connect the ZIP 250 drive to the TDPX5 using the IDE ribbon and the IDE signal cable
 4. Plug in the USB drive into the right side of the TD3
 5. Insert the ZIP 250 disk into the drive
 6. Power on the TD3 using the power button located on it's front
 
 ### Imaging
 7. You should see icons on either side of the screen on the TD3, one on each side. 
  - This shows the device is recognizing both the ZIP drive and the USB drive. It can take a second to recognize both. 
  - The left will show TDPX5 as a label.
  - The right will show USB-Out as a label.
 8. Hit "Duplicate" on the screen
 9. Double-check the Source and Destination fields to make sure they are correct, as well as the 
 Type, File format, Examiner, and Case ID fields. 
  - To change any of these, hit "Settings" at the bottom of the screen. 
  - From there, you can edit any of the fields using the onscreen keyboard
  - To change the directory, you will need the password for the profile (found on the whiteboard in the DA Lab)
  - You can choose to have the verification on or off (this really depends on how it goes, sometimes the verification
  messes up the image completely)
 10. Once all the edits are made, hit the Back button on the bottom left of the screen
 11. Hit the large "Duplicate" button on the right side of the screen
  - It will show you the progress of duplication/image, along with the elasped time and an estimation of the time 
  remaining. Keep an eye on it for errors and such. 
12a. If successful, a chime will sound when the duplication/image is complete.
12b. If unsuccessful, a loud error sound will chime. 
12c. Hit "Ok" on the screen. 
13. Eject the ZIP 250 disk from the drive. 
 - NOTE: To safely eject the USB drive, click on it's icon on the main screen. Scroll to the bottom and click 
  "Eject disk"
14. Power down the TD3 by holding down the power button (even if you plan on doing more disks)
 - Hit "Yes" when prompted if you are sure if you want to shut down
15. Repeat from Step 5 if you plan to do more than one ZIP 250 disk at a time. 
