---
layout: post
title:  ZIP 100 Disks
category: jekyll 
description: Instructions for imaging ZIP 100 disks
---

# ZIP 100 Disks

### Materials Needed:
- Iomega ZIP 100 drive (and its USB/Power cords)
- Paperclip
- Tableau USB 3.0 Bridge

### Software Needed:
- BitCurator environment
- GuyMager

### Steps:
1. Make sure the computer is in the BitCurator environment (see [here](https://bedwards254.github.io/testBDBC/jekyll/2019/01/22/BC-Windows-Switch.html) for how to switch)
2. Connect the USB of the ZIP drive to the USB port of the Tableau bridge, using the Iomega USB cable (white)
3. Connect the Tableau Bridge to the computer using the <span class="blue">BLUE</span> USB cable 
4. Plug in the Iomega drive to a power source using its provided power cord. A <span class="green">green</span> light should appear on the front of the drive. 
5. Plug in the bridge to its power source. 
6. Push the power button on the Tableau bridge to turn it on. All of the lights minus the Device one should be on
7. Insert your ZIP disk into the drive, with the silver bit going in first. The Device light on the bridge should then turn on once it recognizes a disk is there.  
8. Launch Guymager (Desktop\Imaging and Recovery\Guymager).
9. In the Guymager window, select the correct drive and right click to bring up the imaging menu. Select “Acquire image.”
10. Select “Expert Witness Format, sub-format Guymager (file extension .EXX)” as file format and enter basic metadata, as relevant. 
Refer to Metadata Guidelines for guidance:
- a. Under “Split,” type in an amount above what the total of the drive says it is. Ex. 5 GB on a 4GB drive, to make sure it doesn’t split.
- b. Case Number: Record ID (MSS# then _ then a successive 2 or 3 digit number)
- c. Evidence Number: Disk Number/Title
- d. Examiner: Imager’s Net ID (e.g., dwaugh, elfarr)
- e. Description: Brief description of media (e.g., collection name and type of drive it is, and number if applicable (Rita Ann Higgins flash drive 1)) and physical label, if applicable.
- f. Notes: As needed

11. Browse to directory in which newly created image will be stored.
- a. Instructions for getting to hard drive PC:
    * i. Use the browse button (...) to the right of *Image directory* to navigate to the folder created at step 5;
    * 1. NOTE: Go ```media/bcadmin/New Volume/``` to reach the hard drive properly
- b. Back in Guymager, select newly created folder as image directory.

12. Enter file name for the image. The file name should be the record ID (MSS# then _ then a successive 2 or 3 digit number). If there is a virtual disk label, include this in the file name as well (MSS#_virtual disk label_successive 2 or 3 digit number, e.g., 1061_AlicesDisk_01).
13. The information file name will automatically populate with whatever file name is entered for the image. This will be the file name for the metadata generated by Guymager.
14. Select all check boxesat the bottom(“Calculate MD5,”“Calculate SHA-1,”“Calculate SHA-256,”“Re-read source after acquisition for verifications (takes twice as long),”and “Verify image after acquisition (takestwice as long)”)
15. Hit “Start”

**NOTE:** You can check the progress of disk imaging by scrolling to the right in the Guymager window.

**NOTE:** You can review the disk image contents by right-clicking the object and selecting *Scripts > Mount Disk Image*. The disk image will be mounted on the Desktop. Double-click to open it and view files.

## TO REMOVE THE DISK:
- The button on the front to eject the disk *DOES NOT WORK*. Instead:
- Find a paperclip from someone
- There is a small hole on the back left side of the drive
- Insert the end of the paperclip into the hole and push inwards to eject the disk. Aim for the green spring (you can see it through the top of the drive)
- If you want to do another disk, close out GuyMager, insert a new disk, and reopen
